All right the second law which is required in order for us to analyze circuits again is when a Kirchoff's
rules and in engineering textbooks it's often referred to as Kirchoff's voltage law.
I don't really know why Kirchhoff got all the credit for this but nonetheless this is what has referred
to his known way before Kirchoff.
But that's the way life works sometimes.
I call it the loop rule and a loop rule is stated something like this.
It says the sum of the potential differences across all the elements of any closed circuit loop must
be zero.
All right so those are just words.
Let's have a look at the main parts of this first part it says close the circuit loop.
So we're going to have to form closed circuit loops and then it says the sum of the potential differences.
So when we're going to form closed circuit loops let me give you an example here.
So imagine we start over here at Point A.
Well one loop I can do is I can go like this.
I have to form a closed loop and I can come back to Point A.
This is an example of a closed circuit loop.
And it says now if I do that around a closed circuit loop and if I add the potential differences across
all the elements that I find so in this case one element that I would find would be a battery.
Other elements that I would fine if I do this loop I would find a resistor here and I would find a second
resistor.
So in this case for this loop there would be three elements.
And it says if I add up the differences in potential when I cross these three elements and I come back
to the same point that must be equal to zero.
Now another example of a closed loop for this circuit.
Again if I start at point A and other example of a closed loop would be this one here in green you can
go on the other side.
Once I'm here I have to make a decision.
I could go over here and I can come back to Point A.
There is another example of a closed loop where Kirchoff's voltage law would say if you add up all the
potential differences across the battery across the 12 ohm resistor then across the forum resistor you
come back to point A that must be equal to zero.
Now here's a couple more.
Here's a red loop.
Let's start at a different point.
What if I started at point B an example of a closed loop would be this one here.
Here I can go like I have to make a decision here.
Let's go over to the 6:1 it doesn't matter what you choose as you come back over here.
There is an example of a closed loop here I cross a three arm my cross of five AM I go up to the top
I cross a forum then I cross the six ohm resistor and I come back to where I started.
If I would add all the potential differences across these resistors I would get zero.
What I want you to think about it's almost an analogy on this mountain.
What I want you to think about is the potential V as being kind of equivalent to the height some height
on a mountain.
So imagine here I start over here at Point A Well if I want to do a closed loop that means I'm simply
going to go around a path I'm hiking around.
Some things are going to bring me to a higher potential a higher height other paths are going to take
me towards a lower height.
However if I do a closed loop I walk around the mountain.
I go to the top and I come back to where I started.
I'm going to be at the same potential.
I'm going to be at the same height as where I started if I form a closed loop because and since I haven't
changed my height it means that the overall change of potential has to be zero because I'm at the same
point or I started
now even if I started at point eight.
I chose a completely different path.
It really doesn't matter if I sum all the potential differences all the ups and downs and I come back
to the same point I have to be where I started.
So there is no difference between where I started and where I finished.
So this is what we're going to see when we're going across certain elements when we cross batteries
we're going to be adding potential differences or subtracting them will depend now in which direction
we cross the elements.
So we'll have to look at the different types of elements we have to look at what happens when I cross
a battery and what happens when I cross a resistor for example in that first loop I drew which was this
blue one over here.
Well what is the difference if I decided to go around this loop in a clockwise fashion like this versus
counter-clockwise at the end of the day the physics should be the same.
So we've got to make sure that everything works with Kirchoff's voltage law.
So let's now have a look at what happens now when I cross different elements.
And when I cross them in different directions.